### Q1

You are flying overhead CYCD en route CAT4, following the published CYCD VTPC from Yellow Point to the Gravel Pit. What is the upper altitude for this procedure? _____ . Does this procedure provide for any altitude separation for opposite direction traffic? _____ (CFS)

1. 2500 in CZ
2. VFR

### Q2

Before departing CAT4 and returning to CYYJ you check the "Live RVR" and see the winds are 220deg at 10 gusting 25. Your calculations show the runway 27 headwind gust component is _____ knots and the runway 27 gust crosswind component is _____ knots from the _____.

1. 16
2. 19
3. 180

### Q3

If you are unconfortable with these winds and they are still as published when you arrive back in CYYJ, what option do you have?

Request landing on runway 21

### Q4

As you approach CYYJ from CAT4 and get CYYJ's ATIS, you note the winds are now 260 @ 7 knots". What arrival can you plan for, given you are flying VFR and the weather is VFR? _____. How do you fly this arrival and what do you expect Inner Tower to give you by way of clearance at the Inner Report Point? _____

If no traffic is taking off in the near future
1. Cowichan Bay arrival at 2000'
2. Descend at your discretion to 1100' and join left-hand downwind for runway 27


If the area is busy
1. Cowichan Bay arrival at 2000'
2. Descend at your discretion to 1100' and join right-hand downwind for runway 27

### Q5

When there are multiple aircraft in the circuit and you are instructed to follow the aircraft ahead, but that aircraft has been told to climb runway heading to 1000' before turning crosswind, at what point can you turn?

1. By night 1100'
2. By day 500' if not instructed otherwise by ATC

### Q6

If you are given an instruction to hold short of a runway, what info MUST be read back?

[call sign] hold short runway 14

### Q7

You are on final approach and Tower directs: "... for wake turbulence, make this a Low Approach. Cleared for the Low Approach only runway [number]". What does this authorize you to do and how low can you legally descend? _____ How low would you descend? _____

1. authorized to fly over the runway then go around without altitude restriction
2. 500'

### Q8

If you were given a hold short clearance to a crossing runway, how should you approach the hold short line?


### Q9

If the code you have from Kamloops FIC differs from the code issued by Victoria's Clearance Delivery, which one should you use?


### Q10

If you are on the left downwind for runway 27 abeam Mt. Newton and you are asked to orbit what should you do?


### Q11

The CARS prohitbit takeoff when frost, ice or snow is adhering to any critical of the aircraft. In the case of all VFC aircraft what are "critical surfaces"? (CAR 602.11 (2))

602.11 (1) In this section, critical surfaces means the wings, control surfaces, rotors, propellers, horizontal stabilizers, vertical stabilizers or any other stabilizing surfaces of an aircraft, as well as any other surfaces identified as critical surfaces in the aircraft flight manual.

### Q12

What is the purpose of the "four corners check" during your pre-start pre-flight checks?


### Q13

What three types of landing errors can result in a "hard landing" and what must you do if you experience a hard landing? (FTGU p292)


### Q14

GKMY has a manually operated "ALT AIR" system. What is fitted in our S model fleet in place of this? (POH 7-22)

The air box behind the air filter has an alternate air door which the engine suction opens if the air induction filter becomes blocked.


### Q15

An open "ALT AIR" door in GKMY or any of our S models will result in an approximate _____ % loss in power at full throttle (POH 7-22)

10%


### Q16

You are flying from CYYJ to CYBL and plan VFR direct from Separation Point to Campbell River at 6500' AMSL. Assuming zero wind, what is the maximum distance you can glide if you have a total engine failure at 6500' ASML? _____. And at 2500' ASML? _____. (POH 3.14)

1. 10 nm
2. 4 nm

### Q17

Calculate and plot a W&B for CGUPA using the following weights and the attached POH WB Form (POH Section 6)
1. Basic Empty weight - 1440.2, moment 56191.0
2. Pilot and passenger - 375 pounds total
3. Rear passenger - 250 pounds total
4. 84.8 pounds baggage

Can you take full fuel? ___No.

Hown much fuel can you safely take? __25g.

        Weight    Moment
        1440.2    56.191
        375       14 
        250       18.5
        84.8      8
        
        240       11.5
Total   2390      108.191

[wb fail (outside enveloppe)](https://ericminio.github.io/yop-fly/wb/?flight=eyJwbGFuZSI6IkNHVVBBIiwiZnJvbnRzZWF0LTEiOiIyMDAiLCJmcm9udHNlYXQtMiI6IjE3NSIsImJhY2tzZWF0LTEiOiIxMDAiLCJiYWNrc2VhdC0yIjoiMTUwIiwiZ2FsbG9ucyI6IjQwIiwidGFuayI6IjI0MCIsImJhZ2dhZ2UxIjoiODQuOCIsImJhZ2dhZ2UyIjoiMCJ9)

25 gallons fuel gives exactly 2300 lb ramp weight inside enveloppe:
[wb max](https://ericminio.github.io/yop-fly/wb/?flight=eyJwbGFuZSI6IkNHVVBBIiwiZnJvbnRzZWF0LTEiOiIyMDAiLCJmcm9udHNlYXQtMiI6IjE3NSIsImJhY2tzZWF0LTEiOiIxMDAiLCJiYWNrc2VhdC0yIjoiMTUwIiwiZ2FsbG9ucyI6IjI1IiwidGFuayI6IjE1MCIsImJhZ2dhZ2UxIjoiODQuOCIsImJhZ2dhZ2UyIjoiMCJ9)

### Q18

How does the calculated CofG from question 17 affect GUPA's flight performance versus when it is lightly loaded? (FTGU p272)


### Q19

What is the minimum reserve fuel requirement for a 172s with the following flight profile: 7000' Pressure Altitude, 20C Above standard Temp, 2300 rpm? _____. (POH 5.19/5.20)


### Q20

Assuming a 172s with takeoff weight of 2405 pounds calculate a Short Field Takeoff Distance Ground Roll _____ and Total Distance to Clear a 50' Obstacle _____ at an airport with only one grass runway (09/27), a calculated Pressure Altitude of 4500', a temperature of 35C and a pilot-observed wind of 090 at 9 knots. (POH Figure 5-5)

(1335 + 1430 + 1465 + 1570 / 4 = 1450

(2295 + 2455 + 2530 + 2715) / 4 = 2498.75


